DOCSP-9585 builders sort criteria (#59)
mongodb/docs-java: source/fundamentals/builders/sort.txt

   :class: singlecol

.. _sorts-builders:

Overview
--------

In this guide, we show you how to use **builders** to specify
**sort criteria** for your queries.

Sort criteria are the rules MongoDB uses to sort your data. Some examples of sort criteria are:

* Smallest number to largest number
* Earliest to latest time of day
* Alphabetical order by first name 

Builders are classes provided by the MongoDB Java driver that allow you to use
the builder pattern to interact with your MongoDB instance.
The builder pattern is an Object Oriented design technique for creating complex
immutable objects separately from their representation. The builders provided
by the MongoDB Java driver can improve the readability of your code.

You should read this guide if you would like to use the builder pattern
to specify sort criteria for your queries. If you are new to sorting in the
MongoDB Java driver, consider reading our

> :doc:`CRUD Sort Guide </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort/>`

Reviewer: Let's omit CRUD since the reader might not understand the context immediately.

Author: "Sort Guide", another way "Sort guide in the fundamentals section", "guide on sorting",  it should be descriptive makes sense in the context of the sentence.

Author: Thanks for catching this. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/b553ec5054687057f28fa28a12654d177e186654

Going forward, I will try to give links immediately understandable context, leaving out unhelpful/jargon words when possible.

   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

Sorting Direction
-----------------

The ``Sorts`` class provides two methods for specifying the sort order of data
that does not contain any duplicate values. Data can be sorted from smallest to largest 
with ``Sorts.ascending()``, and data can be sorted from largest to smallest with
``Sorts.descending()``. The following two subsections provide examples
on how to use these two methods. 

Ascending
~~~~~~~~~

To specify an ascending sort, use the ``Sorts.ascending()``
static factory method. An ascending sort returns 
your documents from smallest to largest on the field name specified.

The ``ascending`` method can be used as follows:

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>

   collection.find().sort(Sorts.ascending("<field name>"))

This will return a 
:java-docs:`FindIterable </apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/FindIterable.html>`

> object containing the documents in your collection sorted 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
object containing the documents in your collection, sorted 
```

Author: Thanks for the note. Fixed: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/faebe4d9b87f28abee25e3a3ffd3f049b978faa0

Going forward, I will try to get a more formalized grammar checking procedure in place.

from smallest to largest on the specified field name. 

.. example::

   In this code example, we use ``ascending`` to
   sort the ``sort_example`` collection by ``"_id"``:

   .. code-block:: java
   
      import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   
      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      
      Bson id_sort = ascending("_id");
      List<Document> results = new ArrayList<>();
      collection.find().sort(id_sort).into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }

   The output of the above code snippet should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: none
   
      {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
      ...
   
An important thing for you to keep in mind is that MongoDB does
not guarantee sort order for documents that have fields with identical values.

> This means that ``ascending("letter")`` could have any of these

Reviewer: I would avoid this type of notation in which you're showing what you're passing to a method outside of a code snippet. Instead you can convey the same meaning with something like:
"This means that if you pass "letter" to the ascending() method, the first document returned could be any of the following documents:"

Author: Thanks for the note. Fix for occurrences of this pattern on my page: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/bd8312cb77e520c0f2a987dfdc4a7e06e4592c0c

Going forward, I will avoid ``"<some string>"`` outside of code.

documents in the first position: 

.. code-block:: none

   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "donuts and coffee"}

If you would like to have a guaranteed sort order 
for documents that have fields with identical values
you can specify additional fields to sort
on in the event of a tie. 

We can specify an ``ascending`` sort on ``"letter"`` followed
by ``"_id"`` as follows:

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>
   
   collection.find().sort(ascending("letter", "_id"))

The above code snippet returns the documents in the

> ``sort_example`` collection in the following order: 

Reviewer: Consider linking back to the example documents when mentioning this collection since the page is fairly long.

Author: User might not know what the sort example collection is. If they use TOC they could miss it. Add reference to the collection and turn all instances of "sort_example" into links to that reference. 

On most pages you can't see it at the same time as references to it. 

Alternatively, you could say 'at the top of the page', but linking is probably no harder and better.

Author: Thanks for the note. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/38f50339a909443d6af8583a0e6e702610fd154f

Going forward, I'll try to be more mindful of vertical scrolling a user might have to do to make sense on an example. I will also try to be mindful of how users can go outside the expected flow of a page (missing sort_example definition).

> .. code-block:: none

Reviewer: You can use json here instead of none

Reviewer: Applies to all the json output examples

Author: Thanks for the note. I think I was on autopilot that code output is `none`, but in these cases `json` is def the better choice. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/c474eb8db275de169d13d1b14725be22ed2393b5

Going forward, I will try to put more thought into picking the best output type for code blocks.

   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

Descending
~~~~~~~~~~

To specify a descending sort, use the ``Sorts.descending()``
static factory method. A descending sort returns your documents
from largest to smallest on the field name specified.

> The following code snippet shows how to specify a ``descending``

Reviewer: I would avoid monospace unless you're talking about the method in which case you would add a trailing `()`

Author: Thanks for the note. Fixed: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/571a18405e071ceee10e09ddb89047dd73b93ee5

sort on the ``"_id"`` field: 

.. code-block:: java
   
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.descending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>
   
   collection.find().sort(descending("_id"))

The above code snippet returns the documents in the
``sort_example`` collection in the following order: 

.. code-block:: none

   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   ...

An important thing for you to keep in mind is that MongoDB does
not guarantee sort order for documents that have fields with identical values.
This means that ``descending("letter")`` could have any of these
documents in the first position: 

.. code-block:: none

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

If you would like to have a guaranteed sort order 
for documents that have fields with identical values
you can specify additional fields to sort
on in the event of a tie. 

The following code snippet shows how to specify a ``descending``

> sort on the ``"letter"`` field followed by the ``"_id"`` field: 

Reviewer: For variable names and field names the monospace formatting is all that is necessary. For values, we use just double quotes. We should choose just one rather than both.

Author: Field names just get monospace. Values get just double quotes (no monospace).

Author: Thanks for the note. This is fixed in:  https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/571a18405e071ceee10e09ddb89047dd73b93ee5

Going forward, I will give field names monospace, put values in quotes without monospace.

      import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.metaTextScore;
      import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   
      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      
      // create a text index on the food field
      collection.createIndex(Indexes.text("food"));
      // create text score sort specification
      Bson metaTextScore = metaTextScore("score");
      String searchTerm = "maple donut";
      // build $text search query
      Bson searchQuery = new Document("$text", new Document("$search", searchTerm));
      collection.find(searchQuery)
              // project the text score into documents on the "score" field (optional in MongoDB 4.4 or later)
              .projection(metaTextScore)
              // sort the documents on the "textScore" field
              .sort(metaTextScore)
              .into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }
   
   The output of the above code snippet should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: none

      {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut", "score": 1.5}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee", "score": 0.75}

>       {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup", "score": 0.75}

Reviewer: I think it could be helpful to provide a short summary (as short as one sentence) of the section and/or the entire document.

Author: Thanks for the note. Looking at other articles, it seems like the convention is for closing sections to take the form "For more information, see <link to relevant MongoDB content>". I added a similar section here:  https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/cec9d340d6240aeadce6e9d97bed0d12ce42d63b

   :class: singlecol

.. _sorts-builders:

Overview
--------

In this guide, we show you how to use **builders** to specify
**sort criteria** for your queries.

Sort criteria are the rules MongoDB uses to sort your data. Some examples of sort criteria are:

* Smallest number to largest number

> * Earliest to latest time of day

Reviewer: For parallel structure, either:
"Smallest to largest number"
or
"Earliest time of day to latest time of day"

Author: Thank you, good catch. Fixed: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/a5a96aa86952d02dcb9bfb2255c098267a446364

I will try to keep an eye out non-parallel structure in my writing.

* Alphabetical order by first name 

Builders are classes provided by the MongoDB Java driver that allow you to use
the builder pattern to interact with your MongoDB instance.
The builder pattern is an Object Oriented design technique for creating complex
immutable objects separately from their representation. The builders provided
by the MongoDB Java driver can improve the readability of your code.

You should read this guide if you would like to use the builder pattern
to specify sort criteria for your queries. If you are new to sorting in the
MongoDB Java driver, consider reading our
:doc:`CRUD Sort Guide </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort/>`
for a general introduction to sorting with the MongoDB Java driver.

The Sorts Class
---------------

The :java-docs:`Sorts <apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html>`
class is the sort criteria builder provided by the MongoDB Java Driver.
``Sorts`` provides static factory methods for all
sort criteria operators supported by MongoDB. Each method returns
an instance of the

> :java-docs:`Bson <apidocs/bson/org/bson/conversions/Bson.html?>`

Reviewer: Let's not use ? to end URLs that don't contain any query params

Author: Thanks for catching this. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/baff37938847cae8e10f30c324e3755999aa930d

Going forward, I will try and make sure that my URLs are as clean as possible (as opposed to just functional).

the following documents:

.. code-block:: none

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

Sorting Data
------------

The ``Sorts`` class provides two methods for specifying the sort order of data
that does not contain any duplicate values. Data can be sorted from smallest to largest 
with ``Sorts.ascending()``, and data can be sorted from largest to smallest with
``Sorts.descending()``. The following two subsections provide examples
on how to use these two methods. 

Ascending
~~~~~~~~~

To specify an ascending sort, use the ``Sorts.ascending()``
static factory method. An ascending sort returns 
your documents from smallest to largest on the field name specified.

The ``ascending`` method can be used as follows:

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>

   collection.find().sort(Sorts.ascending("<field name>"))

> This will return a 

Reviewer: Let's avoid future tense ("will") when possible

Author: "This returns a finditerable...."  <--- improved wording

Author: Thanks for catching this. Fix:https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/addddcff43eee2db7830a6d2d648c7c1e1ea154b

I will try to keep looking for future tense in docs writing and remove it when possible.

:java-docs:`FindIterable </apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/FindIterable.html>`
object containing the documents in your collection sorted 
from smallest to largest on the specified field name. 

.. example::

   In this code example, we use ``ascending`` to
   sort the ``sort_example`` collection by ``"_id"``:

   .. code-block:: java
   
      import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   
      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      

>       Bson id_sort = ascending("_id");

Reviewer: In Java, camelcase is the variable naming convention rather than snake case. Can we use `idSort` instead of `id_sort`?

Author: Thanks for catching this. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/45f1faf03edfc57091e951f6c9e34347579a48f9

Going forward, I will try and make sure that my variable names are always conforming to the conventions of the language I am writing in. Should probably look into more Java linters as well.

      List<Document> results = new ArrayList<>();
      collection.find().sort(id_sort).into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }

   The output of the above code snippet should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: none
   
      {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
      ...
   

> An important thing for you to keep in mind is that MongoDB does

Reviewer: Let's try to keep sentences concise by avoiding/truncating unnecessary phrases like "an important thing for you to keep in mind".

Author: "Note That", "Keep in mind", short phrases from sync review. "Imporant thing" is a generic, vague, and generally unhelpful term.

Author: Thanks for catching this, when it is pointed out I can see that this "An important thing for you to keep in mind" is not performing any real work in the sentence. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/607668630503604b9749b5f1856514bd2470b027

Going forward, I will try to improve my sentence revision sense to catch these sorts of unnecessary phrases before review.

on in the event of a tie. 

We can specify an ``ascending`` sort on ``"letter"`` followed
by ``"_id"`` as follows:

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>
   
   collection.find().sort(ascending("letter", "_id"))

The above code snippet returns the documents in the
``sort_example`` collection in the following order: 

.. code-block:: none

   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

Descending
~~~~~~~~~~

To specify a descending sort, use the ``Sorts.descending()``
static factory method. A descending sort returns your documents
from largest to smallest on the field name specified.

The following code snippet shows how to specify a ``descending``
sort on the ``"_id"`` field: 

.. code-block:: java
   
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.descending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>
   

>    collection.find().sort(descending("_id"))

Reviewer: this is missing a trailing semicolon, applies to all instances

Author: This would not compile ^

Author: Thanks for the note. Fixed missing semicolons in code snippets here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/78d43cbe0a1a8c61713462c626f97a7160350f0d

Going forward, I will try to better check code snippets to make sure they will compile in given language. Will possibly look into bluehawk to better separate code snippets from docs content (let IDE catch bugs and then auto replace text on page).

* Smallest number to largest number
* Earliest time of day to latest time of day
* Alphabetical order by first name 

The builder pattern allows you to create complex immutable objects
separately from their representation. :doc:`Builders </fundamentals/builders/>` 
are classes provided by the MongoDB Java driver that allow you to use
the builder pattern to construct
:java-docs:`Bson <apidocs/bson/org/bson/conversions/Bson.html>` objects.
The builders provided by the MongoDB Java driver can improve the
readability of your code.

You should read this guide if you would like to:

* Use the builder pattern to specify sort criteria for your queries.
* Perform ascending sorts and descending sorts.
* Combine sort criteria.
* Sort on the text score of a
  :manual:`text search </core/text-search-operators/>`.

If you want to learn the fundamentals of sorting in the MongoDB Java
driver, consider reading our
:doc:`guide on sorting </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort/>`.

The Sorts Class
---------------

The :java-docs:`Sorts </apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html>`
class is a builder that provides static factory methods for all sort criteria

> operators supported by MongoDB. All methods of ``Sorts`` return a

Author: Thanks for the note. I guess I have started defaulting to restating full referent rather than using pronouns, even in cases where it is less helpful. Going forward, I will try to be more critical in regards to using pronouns or restating referent and choosing the best option for the situation.

:java-docs:`Bson </apidocs/bson/org/bson/conversions/Bson.html>`
object that you can pass to the 
:java-docs:`sort() </apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/FindIterable.html#sort(org.bson.conversions.Bson)>`
method of a ``FindIterable`` instance. 

.. _sorts-builders-sort-example:

The following examples show you how to use the methods
provided by the ``Sorts`` class to sort your queries. The examples use a
sample collection, ``sort_example``, that contains the following documents:

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

Sorting Direction
-----------------

The ``Sorts`` class provides methods for specifying the direction of your sort.
The direction of your sort can either be **ascending**, or **descending**.

> An ascending sort orders your data from smallest to largest. A

Reviewer: Nitpick: I wonder if "results" is a better description than "data".

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree "results" is more accurate in this instance than "data". This introduces a small lack of parallel structure with the "examples of sorted data" in the next paragraph, but I think the improved accuracy here provides more benefit to readers. 

FiX: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/a7f52d436a6f2ed816d7ec7c3683e5992b2451cb

descending sort orders your data from largest to smallest.

Here are some examples of data sorted in ascending order:

* Numbers: 1, 2, 3, 43, 43, 55, 120
* Dates: 1990-03-10, 1995-01-01, 2005-10-30, 2005-12-21 

> * Words (Alphabetical): carrot, cheese, cucumber, hummus

Reviewer: Question: does alphabetical need to be in caps? Also, I wonder whether it might be helpful to demonstrate sort order of capital letters vs the same lowercase letter

Author: After reviewing the [Lists](https://docs.mongodb.com/meta/style-guide/style/lists/) section of the style guide, I think "Alphabetical" should not be capitalized. Good catch.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/8503f4c3d47197472846bf9c5f576431a3228b06

Here are some examples of data sorted in descending order:

* Numbers: 100, 30, 12, 12, 9, 3, 1

> * Dates: 2020-01-01, 1998-12-11, 1998-12-10, 1900-07-22 

Reviewer: Nitpick: 1900 might not work so well, choose something after 1970. See: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/Date/#behavior

Author: Thanks for the note. Going forward, I will pick example dates after the unix epoch.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/7cdf428a97e0d615f3c3d2ecbc0810e03d6f2286

> * Words (Alphabetical): pear, mango, grapes, apple

Reviewer: Question: are you using "alphabetical" to discern from some other type of word order or did you mean for this to be "reverse alphabetical" instead? It could be good to make this clear as I'm still not certain myself.

Author: I used "alphabetical" just to distinguish between "length of word" or "size of food" (not that either of those are the case from the list, just wanted to try and be extremely clear). That being said, "reverse alphabetical" is more helpful to users that "alphabetical", and I am changing it now. 

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/8503f4c3d47197472846bf9c5f576431a3228b06

object containing the documents in your collection, sorted from smallest
to largest on the specified field name. 

.. example::

   In this code example, we use the ``ascending()`` method to sort the
   :ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`  
   by the ``_id`` field:

   .. code-block:: java
   
      import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   
      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      
      Bson idSort = ascending("_id");
      List<Document> results = new ArrayList<>();
      collection.find().sort(idSort).into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }

   The output of the code snippet above should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: json
   
      {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
      ...

Descending
~~~~~~~~~~

To specify a descending sort, use the ``Sorts.descending()`` static factory
method. Pass ``Sorts.descending()`` the name of the field you need to sort on.

> The following code snippet shows how to specify a descending sort on the

Author: Yes, the reason is that the `Descending` code snippet contains significantly less information than the `Ascending` code example. This code snippet style is repeated in `Handling Ties` as well.

> The following code snippet shows how to specify a descending sort on the

Reviewer: Since we haven't established this pattern across the Java docs nor explained it to the user, would it make sense to avoid using the "example" directives for now and -- since it seems like it could be a useful signal -- create a ticket to revisit whether we should update this across all the documentation as well as provide sufficient explanation?

``_id`` field: 

.. code-block:: java
   
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.descending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>
   
   collection.find().sort(descending("_id"));

The code snippet above returns the documents in the
:ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`  
in the following order: 

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   ...

> Handling Ties

Author: Thanks for the note. While I agree this would probably be better in the `fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort` page, I feel that is expanding the scope of the ticket.

In addition, I feel this does relate to builders, as it explains why `ascending()` and `descending()` take an arbitrary number of string arguments.

If you feel strongly about moving this section as part of this ticket however, I will move it, but I think it will introduce a decent amount of issues and restructuring challenges in the crud/sorts page.

> Handling Ties

Reviewer: I would suggest creating the ticket as I wouldn't expect it to be part of this PR.
I don't see much restructuring necessary as you should be able to reuse your material and combine it with the section of the page starting here:

https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/blob/master/source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort.txt#L104

The existing Sorts page isn't clearly identifying it as a tie, but it is showing how a secondary sort is applied when there are two matching values using the Builders. Did you have a different view of how you would restructure it and have a list of what issues you'd face?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MongoDB does not guarantee sort order for documents that have
fields with identical values. This means that if you pass "letter" to
the ``ascending()`` method and use the returned sort criteria to sort
the documents in the
:ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`, the first

> document returned could be any of the following documents:

Author: Thank you for the note. After rewriting, I can see how the suggested edits improve the structure of the section. I think natural sort order should go in this section after it is moved to `fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort` (and specified in a new ticket), I think adding that will benefit the discussion around sort ties, but is outside the scope of the builders page. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/cd399146566f9b6ce8ff6418e65cd6467f9390e1

Going forward, I will try to stress linearity in how I present concepts, building from terms to practical implementation advice.

In the following code snippet, we use the ``orderBy()`` method to combine a
descending sort on the ``letter`` field with an ascending sort on the
``_id`` field.

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.orderBy;
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.descending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>

   Bson orderBySort = orderBy(descending("letter"), ascending("_id"));
   collection.find().sort(orderBySort);

The code snippet above returns the documents in the
:ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`
in the following order: 

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}

Text Search
-----------

If you perform a text search on your collection with the
:manual:`$text </reference/operator/query/text/>` query operator, you 

> can sort your results by how well they match your ``$search`` String using

Author: Thanks for the note. I have rewritten the paragraph to not reference `$search`, and to start with the idea of sorting, I.E "you can specify the order..." as first sentence. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/eafd2710118848f7ff8354aa13e288dee0098e0b

Going forward, I will try to avoid burying the lead on sections, and will try to avoid introducing a large number of terms at the same time.

:manual:`text score </reference/operator/aggregation/meta/#exp._S_meta>`. 
To sort your search results by the text scores associated with your text
search, use the ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` static factory method. 

.. warning:: Make Sure to Create a Text Index

   The ``$text`` query operator performs a text search on the content indexed 
   by the :manual:`text index </core/index-text/>` of your collection.
   Therefore, you must create a text index on your collection before you

>    can run a text search and use ``Sorts.metaTextScore()``.

Reviewer: You can skip repeating the information from the previous paragraph:

Text searches require a text index to locate and score results. For more information on how to create a text index for your collection, see ...

Author: Thanks for the feedback. On rereading, I can see how this repeats information and buries the lead of the warning (text search requires a text index).

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/61b3b0b2e3aa58035d8706c45efd849e72b1417e

.. example::

   In the following code example, we show how you can use the
   ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` method to sort the results of a text
   search on the :ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`.
   The code example uses the :doc:`Filters </fundamentals/builders/filters>`,
   :doc:`Indexes </fundamentals/builders/indexes>`, and
   :doc:`Projections </fundamentals/builders/projections>` builders.
   The code example performs the following actions:

   #. Creates a text index for your
      :ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`
      on the ``food`` field.
   #. Runs your text search for the phrase "maple donut".
   #. Projects ``Projections.metaTextScore()`` into your query results as the
      ``score`` field. This projection is optional if your MongoDB instance is
      running MongoDB 4.4 or later. 

>    #. Sorts using ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` as your sort criteria.

Reviewer: If possible, let's leave the code out of the description of the sequential actions. I think it's easier to describe without the full static method names, and the current descriptions probably need more detail to be precise.

Author: Thanks for the note. After implementing this change, I can see how it improves the quality of the list. This structure allows the prose to give a higher level description of code, rather than the prose restating what is in the code. 

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/ba9a57fe368df60e04e59051bd541f4af60523b0

Going forward: I will try to have prose provide alternative information to code rather than duplicating content of code.

Reviewer: I would say you don't always have to leave the code out of it when you're pointing to a specific place where something happens, but it's preferable to avoid it.

   .. code-block:: java
   
      import com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts;
      import com.mongodb.client.model.Projections;
      import com.mongodb.client.model.Filters;
      import com.mongodb.client.model.Indexes;

      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      
      collection.createIndex(Indexes.text("food"));
      Bson metaTextScoreSort = Sorts.metaTextScore("score");
      Bson metaTextScoreProj = Projections.metaTextScore("score");
      String searchTerm = "maple donut";
      Bson searchQuery = Filters.text(searchTerm);
      collection.find(searchQuery)
              .projection(metaTextScoreProj)
              .sort(metaTextScoreSort)
              .into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }
   
   The output of the code snippet above should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: json

      {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut", "score": 1.5}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee", "score": 0.75}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup", "score": 0.75}

.. note:: MongoDB 4.4 ``$meta`` Behavior

>   As of MongoDB 4.4, projecting ``Projections.metaTextScore()`` into

Author: Thank you for the note. On second reading, I agree that version numbers should not be discussed in the context of time. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/7dbe6235e256d8a03953b4cd164e2d435ca104e8

Going forward, I will try to discuss versions in the language of use rather than time ("what are you using" rather than "when are you using something".

  your ``FindIterable`` instance is not necessary to sort on
  ``Sorts.metaTextScore()``. In addition, the field name of a ``$meta``
  text score aggregation operation used in a sort is disregarded by the

>   query system. This means that the String field name argument passed to

Author: Thanks for the note. The note about not capitalizing "String" contradicts with [this note](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/62#pullrequestreview-604386569) from @terakilobyte in a different docs-java PR. We should reach a consensus on whether or not we capitalize types going forward.

That being said, I agree that it is unnecessary to the type of argument, and will take the suggested change.

Going forward, I will try to better assess whether it is necessary to reference the type of arguments I am passing to methods.

  ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` is ignored in MongoDB 4.4 and later.

For more information, see the
:java-docs:`Sorts class API documentation </apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html>`.
For more information on the :manual:`$text </reference/operator/query/text/>`
query operator and the
:manual:`$meta </reference/operator/aggregation/meta/>`

> aggregation pipeline operator, see the related server manual documentation.

Author: Thank you for the note.

Going forward, I will try to stress linear link introductions (no backtracking for user).

   :class: singlecol

.. _sorts-builders:

Overview
--------

In this guide, we show you how to specify **sort criteria** for your
queries using **builders**.

Sort criteria are the rules MongoDB uses to sort your data. Some
examples of sort criteria are:

* Smallest number to largest number
* Earliest time of day to latest time of day
* Alphabetical order by first name 

The builder pattern allows you to create complex immutable objects

> separately from their representation. :doc:`Builders </fundamentals/builders/>` 

Reviewer 2: The use of the term `builder` here is in a different sense that the builder pattern described in Design Patterns book by the Gang of Four.  See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Builder_pattern#:~:text=The%20builder%20pattern%20is%20a,Gang%20of%20Four%20design%20patterns.

So we should not refer to the builder pattern when describing any of the driver's builder classes.

Author: Thanks for the note. I will not reference the GoF builder pattern when discussing builder classes going forward. Thank you for clarifying. Going forward, would you say a reasonable definition of "builders" as used in the MongoDB Java driver is:

>  Builders are MongoDB Java driver classes that provide static utility methods for constructing complex `Bson` objects. 

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/d4c3b949928646e5c7d6000e32cb0856b7fb44d2

Reviewer 2: That's a good question.  I think calling them `complex` is overstating the case, but I'm struggling to come up with a good definition.  Maybe if I explain in less succinct terms why we created them, you can come up with something good? We created the builder classes to make it easier for Java developers to use the CRUD API without having to refer to MongoDB reference documentation.  Instead, they can just look at a Java API that is already loaded into their IDE.  This has a few benefits:

1. It leverages the power of the IDE to do discovery and code completion
2. It leverages the power of the Java compiler and the IDE to find errors during development.  If you misspell a method name the IDE will nag you and the compiler will yell at you.  Contrast `Filters.ltd("foo")` with `new Document("$ltd", "foo")`.  In the former Intellij will underline `ltd` and give you a red bar on the right.  And you are not likely to have made the mistake in the first place because of code completion.  In the latter you get no visual indication of a problem and will only find it if you run the code.

It doesn't find all errors: in both you could misspell the field name `"foo"`.  But it helps.

Author: Hi Jeff, thank you providing this helpful background information. [I have filed a JIRA ticket](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-15177) to better define builders, and to unify our approach to linking to builder definition in our builders subsections. I have removed `complex` for the sorts page, and have directed traffic to the main Fundamentals > Builders page which will be updated in the newly filed JIRA ticket to include this information about Code Completion/Discovery and Error Checking.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/91154a2104485616950bda5f793e673f26f79c86

are classes provided by the MongoDB Java driver that allow you to use
the builder pattern to construct
:java-docs:`Bson <apidocs/bson/org/bson/conversions/Bson.html>` objects.
The builders provided by the MongoDB Java driver can improve the
readability of your code.

You should read this guide if you would like to:

* Use the builder pattern to specify sort criteria for your queries.
* Perform ascending sorts and descending sorts.
* Combine sort criteria.
* Sort on the text score of a
  :manual:`text search </core/text-search-operators/>`.

If you want to learn the fundamentals of sorting in the MongoDB Java
driver, consider reading our
:doc:`guide on sorting </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort/>`.

The Sorts Class
---------------

The :java-docs:`Sorts </apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html>`
class is a builder that provides static factory methods for all sort criteria
operators supported by MongoDB. These methods return a
:java-docs:`Bson </apidocs/bson/org/bson/conversions/Bson.html>`
object that you can pass to the 
:java-docs:`sort() </apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/FindIterable.html#sort(org.bson.conversions.Bson)>`

> method of a ``FindIterable`` instance. 

Reviewer 2: And `Aggregates,sort`

Author: Thanks for the note. Good catch, `Aggregates.sort()` should also be included here. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/301132c8ba70baeaf340cc27f98db004c239cba0

.. _sorts-builders-sort-example:

The following examples show you how to use the methods
provided by the ``Sorts`` class to sort your queries. The examples use a
sample collection, ``sort_example``, that contains the following documents:

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

Sorting Direction
-----------------

The ``Sorts`` class provides methods for specifying the direction of your sort.

> The direction of your sort can either be **ascending**, or **descending**.

Reviewer 2: Nit: remove comma?

Author: Good catch. I think you correct in saying this comma should be removed. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/b8b78e55e8dc5227b0dfbaeb5af3e9324948bf5d

In the following code snippet, we use the ``orderBy()`` method to combine a
descending sort on the ``letter`` field with an ascending sort on the
``_id`` field.

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.orderBy;
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.descending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>

   Bson orderBySort = orderBy(descending("letter"), ascending("_id"));
   collection.find().sort(orderBySort);

The code snippet above returns the documents in the
:ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`
in the following order: 

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}

Text Search
-----------

You can specify the order of the results of a text search performed with the
:manual:`$text </reference/operator/query/text/>` query operator

> by how closely they match your search string. Each of your search results has a

Reviewer: Nitpick: I think this sentence could make more sense if you reordered the information, e.g.

You can use the $text operator to specify the order of the results of a text search by how closely they match your search string.

or

You can specify the order of the results of a text search by how closely they match your search string using the $text query operator.

Author: Thank you for the note. While I agree the sentence is a bit clunky as is, I feel the proposed rephrasing is inaccurate as the `$text` query operator cannot be used to specify order.

I have rewritten the sentence to not mention `$text` and instead provide a link to the text search page in the server manual.

:manual:`text score </reference/operator/aggregation/meta/#exp._S_meta>`, a
numerical value indicating how well that result matches your search. 
Use the ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` static factory method to build your sort
criteria to sort by the text score.

.. warning:: Make Sure to Create a Text Index

>    Text searches require a :manual:`text index </core/index-text/>` to locate
>    and score your results. See the server manual documentation for more

Reviewer: Nitpick: I think you can make this more concise and precise in that the collection you're querying requires it. Otherwise you might assume an index is something you can pass to a text search.

```suggestion
   You need a :manual:`text index </core/index-text/>` on your collection to perform a text search. See the server manual documentation for more
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion. On rereading, I agree this is a more precise phrasing. I will try to keep an eye out for multiple meanings in my sentences going forward.

   #. Sorts your results by text score (best match first).

   .. code-block:: java
   
      import com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts;
      import com.mongodb.client.model.Projections;
      import com.mongodb.client.model.Filters;
      import com.mongodb.client.model.Indexes;

      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      
      collection.createIndex(Indexes.text("food"));
      Bson metaTextScoreSort = Sorts.metaTextScore("score");
      Bson metaTextScoreProj = Projections.metaTextScore("score");
      String searchTerm = "maple donut";
      Bson searchQuery = Filters.text(searchTerm);
      collection.find(searchQuery)
              .projection(metaTextScoreProj)
              .sort(metaTextScoreSort)
              .into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }
   
   The output of the code snippet above should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: json

      {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut", "score": 1.5}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee", "score": 0.75}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup", "score": 0.75}

> .. note:: MongoDB 4.4 ``$meta`` Behavior

Author: Thanks for the note. Good catch, makes sense to title notes such that they will not have to be updated for each version release. Going forward, will try to keep this maintainability issue in mind.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/97185082fa62e478254922d9a5c08eac7a2131f4

  When using MongoDB 4.4 or later, projecting ``Projections.metaTextScore()`` 
  into your ``FindIterable`` instance is not necessary to sort on

>   ``Sorts.metaTextScore()``. In addition, the field name you specify in a

Reviewer: Did you mean "to sort on the text score"? It doesn't make sense to "sort on [the metaTextScore method]".

Author: Thank you for the note. On rereading, I agree this is incorrect. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/56e21a4cdbae14d49a18678a1ff7401e223daa6e

  ``$meta`` text score aggregation operation used in a sort is disregarded by

>   the query system. This means that the field name argument you pass to

Author: Thank you for the note. The language, "disregarded by the query system", was directly taken from the [`$meta`](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/meta/) server documentation. I haven't heard it elsewhere, so I'm not sure if it is valid as well. I will change "query system" to "MongoDB 4.4 or later".

Good catch on passive voice, I completely missed that. I will try to get better tooling in place to catch passive voice, and will try to develop my ear for it.

Fix:

   :class: singlecol

.. _sorts-builders:

Overview
--------

In this guide, we show you how to use **builders** to specify

> **sort criteria** for your queries.

Reviewer: Nitpick:
Since we have multiple builders, perhaps we could emphasize "sort criteria" first by reordering the sentence. E.g.
"In this guide, we show you how to specify sort criteria for your queries using builders." This would also reflect the order in which you explain the emphasized terms below.

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree the changed order better reflects the overall IA of the site and the way I presented content. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/b645ebd3cfc6ba417843b29106c201fb9fe6d2de

Going forward, I will try to have structure of my sentences reflect overall structure of site and organization of page.

Sort criteria are the rules MongoDB uses to sort your data. Some examples of sort criteria are:

* Smallest number to largest number
* Earliest time of day to latest time of day
* Alphabetical order by first name 

Builders are classes provided by the MongoDB Java driver that allow you to use
the builder pattern to interact with your MongoDB instance.
The builder pattern allows you to create complex
immutable objects separately from their representation. The
:doc:`builders </fundamentals/builders/>`

> provided by the MongoDB Java driver can improve the readability of your code.

Reviewer: Nitpick: use the full 80 column width before wrapping text. Personally, the only exceptions I use are when there's some RST limitation (such as when using "|") or if there is a long link (keep it on a single line).

Author: Thanks for the note. Will try to use the entire column width going forward. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/5a29fab1d881416b50a9661eeba7913638388498

You should read this guide if you would like to:

* Use the builder pattern to specify sort criteria for your queries.
* Learn how to perform ascending sorts, descending sorts, and combining sorts.
* Sort on the text score of :manual:`$text </reference/operator/query/text/>` 
  queries.

> If you are new to sorting in the

Reviewer: How about "If you want to learn the fundamentals of sorting using the MongoDB Java driver"? We should avoid language that might be discouraging such as "you're new", "simple", etc.

Reviewer: If you change it to my suggestion, make sure the rest of the paragraph makes sense and doesn't repeat itself.

Author: Thanks for the note. Good catch, didn't notice how this could be discouraging but it definitely can be. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/dea12b0e7a2f86cc0171f6a7a56eac58b249fcb9

Going forward, I will try to get a better sense of when I am using discouraging language in my writing.

MongoDB Java driver, consider reading our
:doc:`guide on sorting </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort/>`
for a general introduction to sorting with the MongoDB Java driver.

The Sorts Class
---------------

The :java-docs:`Sorts </apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html>`
class is the sort criteria builder provided by the MongoDB Java Driver.
``Sorts`` provides static factory methods for all
sort criteria operators supported by MongoDB. Each method returns
an instance of the
:java-docs:`Bson </apidocs/bson/org/bson/conversions/Bson.html>`

> type. 

Reviewer: 1) Nitpick: I think we can group them as "all" rather than "each" since we're identifying that they have the same behavior, not an individually different one.

2) It would be useful to have more information on what's significant about the Bson type, e.g. 
All these methods return a ``Bson`` object that you can pass to the `sort()` method.

Author: Thanks for the note. I am referring to the group of methods in Sorts (rather than all individual methods in Sorts), so you are right "All" is a better term. Additionally, on having it pointed out, I can see how a user would not know what to do with "returns a ``bson`` type". I am taking your suggested changes, and adding a bit of text to clarify that ``sort()`` is a method of a ``FindIterable`` instance. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/b8b071b5042fc8bcab62ce100233f14641b36c60

> .. _docs_java_fundamentals_builders_sort_sort_example:

Reviewer: Nitpick: I don't think we need extremely descriptive ref anchors, and am fairly certain that they're all local to the repository now. Search this repository for examples.

Author: Thanks for the note Chris. I have shortened the ref anchor here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/845251e43a4a068ce54fad366fc1e7f0376f3150

Going forward, do you know how I could have determined for myself that ref anchors were local to the repository?

The following examples show you how to use the static factory
methods provided by the ``Sorts`` class to sort your queries.
The examples use a sample collection ``sort_example`` that contains
the following documents:

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

Sorting Direction
-----------------

> The ``Sorts`` class provides two methods for specifying the sort order of data

Reviewer: Nitpick: could be more clear by mentioning that there's some quantity of data as "data" itself can be singular/plural. E.g. "sort order of a collection of data" or "sort order of multiple data records"

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree your rewrite is more precise. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/714f1a252b15bea083f5c054f08ee85c3a17dc8f

Going forward, I will try to notice these types of imprecise statements in my writing.

> that does not contain any duplicate values. Data can be sorted from smallest to largest 

Reviewer: The second part of the sentence could use explanation. This can be interpreted as "you cannot use these methods if there's duplicate data" which isn't the message I think you're trying to convey.

Author: Thanks for the note. I see now how that sentence could be read in that unintended way. I am using the term "sort direction" to remove discussion of duplicate values from this sentence entirely. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/714f1a252b15bea083f5c054f08ee85c3a17dc8f

with ``Sorts.ascending()``, and data can be sorted from largest to smallest with
``Sorts.descending()``. The following two subsections provide examples
on how to use these two methods. 

Ascending
~~~~~~~~~

To specify an ascending sort, use the ``Sorts.ascending()``
static factory method. An ascending sort returns 

> your documents from smallest to largest on the field name specified.

Reviewer: I would reorder this information:
1) What does the ascending sort do (returns your documents from smallest to largest based on the value of a field)
1) To specify an ascending sort, use this method
2) Pass this method the field name on which you want to sort by which you can see in the following example

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree, this order better communicates the method. A user wouldn't care about `Sorts.ascending()` unless they knew what an "ascending" sort was. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/d9001f57e9abc5170a7675bcf2e597352fd06c88

> The ``ascending`` method can be used as follows:

Reviewer: When referencing a method name, please use the `()` notation.

Author: Thanks for catching this. Apologies for missing it. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/22ce6b628ec0cf2e394725331b56b7107b8153d4

I will try to always use the ``methodName()`` notation going forward

   
      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      
      Bson idSort = ascending("_id");
      List<Document> results = new ArrayList<>();
      collection.find().sort(idSort).into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }

   The output of the above code snippet should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: json
   
      {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
      ...
   
Note that MongoDB does not guarantee sort order for documents that have
fields with identical values. This means that if you pass "letter" to
the ``ascending()`` method, the first document returned could be any
of the following documents:

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}

If you would like to have a guaranteed sort order 
for documents that have fields with identical values
you can specify additional fields to sort

> on in the event of a tie. 

Reviewer: Let's explain in terms of "need" rather "like to have" when possible. E.g. "If you need a ..., specify additional fields..."

Reviewer: Applies to all instances in the PR

Author: Thanks for the note. "Need" is probably a more accurate term for a customers use case, and is creates a much easier to understand sentence. Will try and remember to use this imperative language going forward. Fix:  https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/ffd278c86dd8cd6a10320c506d2d3682a89d6810

:ref:`sort_example <docs_java_fundamentals_builders_sort_sort_example>`  
collection in the following order: 

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   ...

Note that MongoDB does not guarantee sort order for documents that have
fields with identical values. This means that if you pass "letter" to
the ``descending()`` method, the first document returned could be any of
the following documents:

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

If you would like to have a guaranteed sort order 
for documents that have fields with identical values
you can specify additional fields to sort
on in the event of a tie. 

The following code snippet shows how to specify a descending
sort on the ``letter`` field followed by the ``_id`` field: 

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.descending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>
   
   collection.find().sort(descending("letter", "_id"));

> The above code snippet returns the documents in the

Reviewer: Word order:

```suggestion
The code snippet above returns the documents in the
```

Author: Thank you for catching this. I agree that is a easier to understand phrasing. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/445d98b15fc5f76f64b7f0329c888a678689d7f1

Will try to catch these sorts of confusing sentences going forward.

:ref:`sort_example <docs_java_fundamentals_builders_sort_sort_example>`  

> collection in the following order: 

Reviewer: Nitpick: since "sort_example" isn't a keyword or reserved word, you might include "collection" which is an identifying term in the link as well.

Author: Thanks for the note. I don't have a strong preference either way on this note, but I will take the suggestion to see how effects the flow of the document. Makes sense that add "collection" into the link could benefit some users in how it makes the term a little more explicit. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/e8b1277ece7189adb784fb584ab430e7c79ec2d9

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}

Combining Sort Criteria
-----------------------

To combine sort criteria, use the ``Sorts.orderBy()``
static factory method. The ``orderBy()`` method applies additional
sort criteria from left to right in the event of ties. 

In the following code snippet, we use the ``orderBy()`` method to combine a
descending sort on ``letter`` with an ascending sort on ``_id``.

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.orderBy;

> 

Reviewer: I think you need ascending and descending imports too

Author: Thanks for the note. Good catch. Will try and get static imports right going forward, as you have caught a lot of import issues in this review. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/d3a24130c24945999a912b488ca53d91bcf6d399

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>

   Bson orderBySort = orderBy(descending("letter"), ascending("_id"));
   collection.find().sort(orderBySort);

The above code snippet returns the documents in the
:ref:`sort_example <docs_java_fundamentals_builders_sort_sort_example>`
collection in the following order: 

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}

Text Score
----------

If you are using :manual:`$text </reference/operator/query/text/>`

> queries to search your data you can sort the results of those

Reviewer: I think the official terminology is "text search" and "$text" is the query operator.
https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/text-search-operators/

Author: Thanks for the note. Going forward, I will try not to confuse the tool used to perform an action (`$text` query operator) with an action (text search) in my writing. Fix : https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/65765202ba4cf66fb44e5aa8d7b5cbb1c21f25cf

> queries by text score (how well your search matched the returned document).

Reviewer: Rather than a parenthetical, could you separate the phrase into a new sentence? I don't think there's anything in the style guide about this, but usually we only use parentheses to enclose alternative words or word expansions and possibly for specifying versions.

To sort your results by the
:manual:`$meta </reference/operator/aggregation/meta/#exp._S_meta>`
``textScore`` associated with a ``$text`` query, use the
``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` static factory method to retrieve a sort specification
for a descending sort by score (best match first).

.. note::

  If your MongoDB instance is running MongoDB 4.2 and earlier,
  to use a ``Sorts.metaTextScore()``

>   expression with ``FindIterable.sort()``, you must also

Reviewer: 1) You're referring to an instance method "sort()" on FindIterable, not a static one, so it can be confusing to prepend it the method with the class name. Instead, you could say something like "sort() method on a FindIterable instance"
2) Instead of "with", consider a sentence phrase that is more descriptive of where it belongs. E.g. ... If you pass Sorts.metaTextScore() to the sort() method on a FindIterable, you need to include...

Author: Thanks for the note. I will try and correctly reference instance methods going forward. On rereading, I see that "with" does create an ambiguous relationship between `sort()` and `Sorts.metaTextScore()`. I rewrote the note to clarify relationships and tighten up terms: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/9f34021c771dd366603e284e808b7f117e680ee4

  include the same expression in a projection. This is demonstrated
  in the code example below.

The ``$text`` command performs a text search on the content indexed by the 

> :manual:`text index </core/index-text/>` of your collection. You must create

Reviewer: 1) This sentence is helpful, but I think could be much more effective in the first paragraph.  
2) Is $text a command or query operator?

Author: Thanks for the note. Moved the sentence into the above paragraph (seems to be logically related to ideas presented there), and corrected language around `$text` query operator. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/65765202ba4cf66fb44e5aa8d7b5cbb1c21f25cf

a text index on your collection before you can run a ``$text`` query and use
``Sorts.metaTextScore()``.

.. example::

   In the following code example, we show how to use the
   ``metaTextScore()`` method to sort the results of a ``$text``
   query on
   :ref:`sort_example <docs_java_fundamentals_builders_sort_sort_example>`.
   The following code snippet works as follows:

   #. Create a text index for
      :ref:`sort_example <docs_java_fundamentals_builders_sort_sort_example>`
      on the ``food`` field.
   #. Run a ``$text`` search for the phrase "maple donut".
   #. Project ``metaTextScore()`` into your query results as the
      ``score`` field. This step is optional if your MongoDB instance is
      running MongoDB 4.4 or later. 

>    #. Sort using ``metaTextScore()`` as a sort specification.

Reviewer: Could you elaborate on what you mean by "sort specification"? I'm not familiar with what you're referring to here.

Author: "Sort Specification" is the language used in the [Sort Class API documentation](https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/4.2//apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html) when talking about Sort Criteria. You raise a good point that having two terms in the page for "Sort Criteria" seems unhelpful to readers. I will remove usages of "sort specification" and replace them with "sort criteria". Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/bd340e849cfaa35cbaf6c2559f2a78f8cee22a31

   .. code-block:: java
   
      import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.metaTextScore;
      import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   
      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      
      // create a text index on the food field

>       collection.createIndex(Indexes.text("food"));

Reviewer: Is this the Index builder? If so, could we add that import?

Author: Good Catch, thank you for pointing this out. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/54a65adc099521142fa107f5f2714b2e2c3b608e

Seems like going forward, builder classes get imports in code snippets? Rule seems to also apply in [Documents](https://docs-mongodbcom-staging.corp.mongodb.com/74ac7a4/java/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-9585-Fundamentals-Builders-Sort-Criteria/fundamentals/data-formats/documents/#bsondocument).

      // create text score sort specification
      Bson metaTextScoreSort = metaTextScore("score");
      String searchTerm = "maple donut";
      // build $text search query

>       Bson searchQuery = new Document("$text", new Document("$search", searchTerm));

Reviewer: Are you able to use the Text builder here? We can avoid mixing builders and Document ejson if so.

Author: Thanks for pointing this out. Had not yet taken a close look at the `Filters` class and didn't realize this was an option. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/261c95fdf997e6ac5d8f1d2d3634ec11686271d4

      collection.find(searchQuery)
              // project the text score into documents on the "score" field (optional in MongoDB 4.4 or later)

>               .projection(metaTextScoreSort)

Reviewer: Question: is this correct for the projection? I'm not certain myself, just curious.

Author: I believe it. See the "Sort without Projection" section of the `$meta` [aggregation pipeline operator documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/meta/)

> In find, starting in MongoDB 4.4, you can sort the resulting documents by { $meta: "textScore" } without also having to project the textScore.

In MongoDB 4.2 and earlier, to use { $meta: "textScore" } expression with sort() for a find operation, you must also include the same expression in the projection.

              // sort the documents on the "score" field
              .sort(metaTextScoreSort)
              .into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }
   
   The output of the above code snippet should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: json

      {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut", "score": 1.5}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee", "score": 0.75}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup", "score": 0.75}

For additional information on the ``Sorts`` class, see the 
:java-docs:`Sorts class API documentation </apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html>`.

> For additional information on the ``$text`` and ``$meta`` aggregation

Reviewer: Question: aren't these operators available for use in both query operations as well as aggregation pipelines? Or is this sentence mentioning that the $text is a query operator and $meta is an aggregation one? Could you clear this up for the reader?

Author: Thanks for drawing my attention to this incorrect use of terminology.

After some research I think I have a better understanding of terms. I will clearly state that `$text` is a [query operator](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/query/text/) and that  `$meta` is an [aggregation operator](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/meta/). While `$meta` and `$text` can both be used in aggregation pipelines and `find`, I think this might be going into too much detail for this paragraph. I will just clean up the terminology.  Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/59a640f52384cc3f78a6d95732bc32b8e24f75eb

Going forward I will try to refine my understanding of all of these terms and use them correctly.

   :class: singlecol

.. _sorts-builders:

Overview
--------

In this guide, we show you how to specify **sort criteria** for your
queries using **builders**.

Sort criteria are the rules MongoDB uses to sort your data. Some
examples of sort criteria are:

* Smallest number to largest number
* Earliest time of day to latest time of day
* Alphabetical order by first name 

Builders are classes provided by the MongoDB Java driver that allow you to use

> the builder pattern to interact with your MongoDB instance. The builder

Reviewer: I don't think you use the builder pattern to interact with MongoDB. For all the builders we're documenting in this section, they are used to construct Bson objects.

Author: Thanks for the feedback. You are right, it is incorrect to say that you use the builders to interact with a MongoDB instance, they are used to construct Bson objects. Thanks for catching that.

After trying out a few different configurations of this paragraph, I think placing the "builder pattern" definition sentence before the "builders" sentence is the most natural sequence to present these ideas (builder pattern -> builders  are classes to make bson objects -> builders improve code readability). Let me know if you disagree.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/a3b9316117f01736b27daf50bbe7a02f478674c9

pattern allows you to create complex immutable objects separately from
their representation. The :doc:`builders </fundamentals/builders/>`
provided by the MongoDB Java driver can improve the readability of your code.

You should read this guide if you would like to:

* Use the builder pattern to specify sort criteria for your queries.
* Learn how to perform ascending sorts and descending sorts.
* Learn how to combine sort criteria.
* Sort on the text score of a

>   :manual:`text search </core/text-search-operators/>`.

Author: Thank for the note. There was no difference between the items that started with "learn how to". After rereading, I agree that this "Learn how to" structure shared between 2/4 elements is jarring and unhelpful. I will try to not do this partial parallel structure mid list going forward. 

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/5d8a68445e42047610976a408168a5d7f89f35dd

If you want to learn the fundamentals of sorting in the MongoDB Java
driver, consider reading our
:doc:`guide on sorting </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort/>`

> for a general introduction.

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree, "learn the fundamentals" and "general introduction" say the same thing twice. Removing "for a general introduction." Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/d32aeb39a20426907852f8cdea649318300f65ae

The Sorts Class
---------------

The :java-docs:`Sorts </apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html>`

> class is the sort criteria builder provided by the MongoDB Java Driver.

Author: Thank you for catching this. This is not the first time you have mentioned this to me, apologies for letting this slip through. I will try and catch these going forward.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/7508e442421ed154bb3f537d7d0a6d32a4ae4cbc

``Sorts`` provides static factory methods for all sort criteria

> operators supported by MongoDB. All methods return a

Author: Thank you for the note. I would like to defend this sentence, as I think it gives an abstract idea "sort criterial builder" a concrete definition, "static factory methods for specifying all sort criteria supported by MongoDB". If you disagree after hearing this defense, I understand and will rewrite, but I support keeping this sentence in as is.

> operators supported by MongoDB. All methods return a

Author: Fix:  https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/e77c9aa98506d470499bda4d233c84941450edf8

:java-docs:`Bson </apidocs/bson/org/bson/conversions/Bson.html>`
object that you can pass to the 
:java-docs:`sort() </apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/FindIterable.html#sort(org.bson.conversions.Bson)>`
method of a ``FindIterable`` instance. 

.. _sorts-builders-sort-example:

> The following examples show you how to use the static factory methods

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree that I used "static factory method" too many times in the article. I have removed all instances of "static factory method" that are not the first in the section they are part of. 

I think it makes sense to have "static factory method" at most once in a section however for users that jump to different parts of the page without reading preceding content. Please let me know if you disagree.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/7bc35d3669f6f9d447fb3fe73ebcbaef5c07a7fb

provided by the ``Sorts`` class to sort your queries. The examples use a

> sample collection ``sort_example`` that contains the following documents:

Author: Thanks for the note.  I will try to use commas for parenthetical elements going forward. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/c923c30cec17b82180b03db6d8f3a93a738a812d

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

Sorting Direction
-----------------

The ``Sorts`` class provides two methods for specifying the sort direction

> of your collection of data. Your data can be sorted from smallest to

Author: Thanks for the note. Good catch. The user is doing the sorting here. I rewrote the sentence so that "You can sort your data from...". Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/4733ad5cbd7ab5fb1aba8c831244aefce5c1acaf

I will try to spot passive voice more effectively going forward. I added "look into Grammarly" to my Trello.

largest with ``Sorts.ascending()``, and your data can be sorted from
largest to smallest with ``Sorts.descending()``. The following two
subsections provide examples on how to use these two methods. 

> 

Author: Not sure what change is suggested by this comment, as both Ascending and Descending sections discuss what happens in the event of a tie. Ascending Section Discussion: https://github.com/biniona-mongodb/docs-java/blob/DOCSP-9585-Fundamentals-Builders-Sort-Criteria/source/fundamentals/builders/sort.txt#L136
Descending Discussion: https://github.com/biniona-mongodb/docs-java/blob/DOCSP-9585-Fundamentals-Builders-Sort-Criteria/source/fundamentals/builders/sort.txt#L207

Is there something unsatisfactory about those discussions?

> 

Author: From Meeting with CC - We agreed that it makes sense to move the discussions on handling ties into a dedicated "handling ties" subsection in sorting direction. The content from both sections will be deleted, and one of the two tie sections will be reproduced there.

> 

Author: Fix:  https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/25e11ef0f36ed2450b6d873da7d15266c1cccdcd

Ascending
~~~~~~~~~

An ascending sort returns your documents from smallest to largest based
on the value of a specified field. To specify an ascending sort, use the
``Sorts.ascending()`` static factory method. Pass ``Sorts.ascending()``

> the name of the field you need to sort on.

Author: From discussion with CC - Move defining ascending and descending into the Sort Direction section and remove the introduction of the `Sorts.ascending()` and `Sorts.descending()` methods from the Sort Direction section. 

Add examples of what an ascending/descending sort looks like (sorted data) in the sort direction section.

> the name of the field you need to sort on.

Author: Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/6bd28b06f37d24ea9b5c6d647fe29f88cf417455

The ``ascending()`` method can be used as follows:

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>

   collection.find().sort(ascending("<field name>"));

> This returns a 

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree the above "This" is ambiguous. I will try to be more critical of my pronouns going forward. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/71f00fe9f60b6949e52c570d6ef69cb4e62bc840

   :ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`  
   by ``_id``:

   .. code-block:: java
   
      import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   
      // <MongoCollection setup code here>
      
      Bson idSort = ascending("_id");
      List<Document> results = new ArrayList<>();
      collection.find().sort(idSort).into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }

   The output of the code snippet above should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: json
   
      {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
      ...
   
Note that MongoDB does not guarantee sort order for documents that have
fields with identical values. This means that if you pass "letter" to
the ``ascending()`` method, the first document returned could be any
of the following documents:

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}

> If you need to have a guaranteed sort order for documents that

Author: Thanks for the note. I don't understand the need for this change, is there a piece of the style guide that requests this, or a grammar rule that requires it? After reading it aloud both ways, I prefer it as is, or maybe as "If you need a guaranteed...". 

Suggested edit: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/283b6663951e8b73d01b78d150d092938dd8d4d3

   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}

If you need to have a guaranteed sort order for documents that
have fields with identical values you can specify additional fields to sort
on in the event of a tie. 

The following code snippet shows how to specify a descending
sort on the ``letter`` field followed by the ``_id`` field: 

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.descending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>
   
   collection.find().sort(descending("letter", "_id"));

The code snippet above returns the documents in the
:ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`  
in the following order: 

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}

Combining Sort Criteria
-----------------------

To combine sort criteria, use the ``Sorts.orderBy()`` static factory

> method. The ``orderBy()`` method applies additional sort criteria from

Reviewer: I think "additional" seems to imply that you should use something else as well as this for your sort criteria which is not the case. You could omit it, or replace it with something like "multiple". Also, similar to a comment in the Ascending section, the method is a builder that generates the Bson -- it doesn't apply the sort. That's what `sort()` does.
 
```suggestion
method. The ``orderBy()`` method applies sort criteria from
```

descending sort on ``letter`` with an ascending sort on ``_id``.

.. code-block:: java

   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.orderBy;
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.ascending;
   import static com.mongodb.client.model.Sorts.descending;

   // <MongoCollection setup code here>

   Bson orderBySort = orderBy(descending("letter"), ascending("_id"));
   collection.find().sort(orderBySort);

The code snippet above returns the documents in the
:ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`
in the following order: 

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id": 1, "letter": "c", "food": "coffee with milk"}
   {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut"}
   {"_id": 4, "letter": "b", "food": "coffee with sugar"}
   {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee"}
   {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup"}
   {"_id": 5, "letter": "a", "food": "milk and cookies"}

Text Score
----------

If you are using the :manual:`$text </reference/operator/query/text/>`
query operator to perform text searches on your collections of data you
can sort the results of those text searches by
:manual:`text score </reference/operator/aggregation/meta/#exp._S_meta>`

> (how well your search matched each returned document). To sort your search

Author: Thanks for the note. On rereading, I see that the sentence is cumbersome, and my repetition of "text searches" is a smell for that. I rewrote the sentence to be more linear and avoid repeating "text searches". Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/2496d9ec1884391b4777c46e69fe94400c6a12bb

results by the text score associated with your text search so the best match
is returned first, use the ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` static factory method. Note
that the ``$text`` query operator performs a text search on the content indexed
by the :manual:`text index </core/index-text/>` of your collection. You must
create a text index on your collection before you can run a text search

> and use ``Sorts.metaTextScore()``.

Reviewer: I think these two sentences might make more sense in a "note" or "warn" block. Also, it can help to have a signal word like "Therefore," for the second sentence to show it's a consequence of the prior sentence.

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree that the signaling word 'therefore' is useful, and have added it.

I am not sure I agree that this should go in a note or warning block however (to me it feels fairly central to a discussion of text search), but I don't feel particularly strongly either way. I will move this content into a warning block, and if we find time would like to discuss this later and talk through this piece of feedback.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/5252db66718a632fd71662919346136e58768e4e

.. note::

  If your MongoDB instance is running MongoDB 4.2 and earlier, in order
  to use ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` as sort criteria in the ``sort()``
  method of a ``FindIterable`` instance, you must also include
  ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` in in the ``projection()`` method of that
  ``FindIterable`` instance. This is demonstrated in the code example below.

.. example::

   In the following code example, we show how to use the
   ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` static factory method to sort the results of a text
   search on the :ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`.
   The following code snippet works as follows:

   #. Create a text index for the
      :ref:`sort_example collection <sorts-builders-sort-example>`
      on the ``food`` field.
   #. Run a text search for the phrase "maple donut".

>    #. Project ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` into your query results as the

Author: Thanks for the note. I will try to keep my possessives consistent going forward. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/916256666a946a673582e39676b6e1e5796e0161

I didn't know if everything should be changed to "your", as in some places it feels right and others it feels awkward. It is still "your" MongoDB instance, but the actions are general "the query results", "the sort_example" collection. It sounds fine to my ear, but let me know if you disagree.

      ``score`` field. This step is optional if your MongoDB instance is

>       running MongoDB 4.4 or later. 

Author: Not sure how best to resolve this tension, as the code is the focus of the "code example" section, but the code needs to engage with user's deployment.

I rephrased the section such that the code is acting on the user's objects (your collection, your text search, your sort criteria). Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/490c1ed0a711bd2ec30575e0a7247dd8f9f02726

This fix sounds good to my ear, but let me know if you disagree.

>    #. Sort using ``Sorts.metaTextScore()`` as your sort criteria.

Author: Interestingly, in the `find` operation as of MongoDB 4.4 the fieldname in the sort operation is disregarded by the query system. See [$meta](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/meta/) "Sort Without Projection" section. In MongoDB 4.2 and earlier the field name for projection and sort need to be the same, but in MongoDB 4.4 and later the field name for sort is just ignored. Confirmed this on my 4.2 mongodb instance and 4.4 atlas cluster.

4.2 error: ` Query failed with error code 2 and error message 'must have $meta projection for all $meta sort keys' on server localhost:27017`

i will add a note saying that as of MongoDB 4.4, the field name argument to sort is disregarded, but must match projection fieldname argument in 4.2 and earlier. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/494b94f7a28be15f0727073a3f696643803667d6

      Bson searchQuery = Filters.text(searchTerm);
      collection.find(searchQuery)
              // project the text score into your results on the "score" field (optional in MongoDB 4.4 or later)
              .projection(metaTextScoreSort)
              // sort the results on the "score" field
              .sort(metaTextScoreSort)
              .into(results);
      for (Document result : results) {
          System.out.println(result.toJson());
      }
   
   The output of the code snippet above should look something like this: 
   
   .. code-block:: json

      {"_id": 6, "letter": "c", "food": "maple donut", "score": 1.5}
      {"_id": 2, "letter": "a", "food": "donuts and coffee", "score": 0.75}
      {"_id": 3, "letter": "a", "food": "maple syrup", "score": 0.75}

For additional information on the ``Sorts`` class, see the 
:java-docs:`Sorts class API documentation </apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Sorts.html>`.
For additional information on the ``$text`` query operator and the
``$meta`` aggregation pipeline operator, see the server manual
documentation for :manual:`$text </reference/operator/query/text/>` and

> :manual:`$meta </reference/operator/aggregation/meta/>`.

Author: Thanks for the note. I rewrote the ending sentence to use less repetition. I am not sure this `$text` and `$meta` sentence was improved by this rewrite, but I think the `Sorts` sentence was improved. Would be curious to hear your thoughts. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/59/commits/c1ffd13e2ca5498cd0f0d8412e7a8ad161c296ee
